How To Install and Use Docker on Debian 10
PostedJuly 8, 2019 12k views Docker

    bhogan
    By Brian Hogan
    Become an author

    https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-docker-on-debian-10

Introduction

Docker is an application that simplifies the process of managing application processes in containers. Containers let you run your applications in resource-isolated processes. They’re similar to virtual machines, but containers are more portable, more resource-friendly, and more dependent on the host operating system.

For a detailed introduction to the different components of a Docker container, check out The Docker Ecosystem: An Introduction to Common Components.

In this tutorial, you’ll install and use Docker Community Edition (CE) on Debian 10. You’ll install Docker itself, work with containers and images, and push an image to a Docker Repository.
Prerequisites

To follow this tutorial, you will need the following:

    One Debian 10 server set up by following the Debian 10 initial server setup guide, including a sudo non-root user and a firewall.
    An account on Docker Hub if you wish to create your own images and push them to Docker Hub, as shown in Steps 7 and 8.

Step 1 — Installing Docker

The Docker installation package available in the official Debian repository may not be the latest version. To ensure we get the latest version, we’ll install Docker from the official Docker repository. To do that, we’ll add a new package source, add the GPG key from Docker to ensure the downloads are valid, and then install the package.

First, update your existing list of packages:

    sudo apt update

Next, install a few prerequisite packages which let apt use packages over HTTPS:

    sudo apt install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg2 software-properties-common

Then add the GPG key for the official Docker repository to your system:

    curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/debian/gpg | sudo apt-key add -

Add the Docker repository to APT sources:

    sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/debian $(lsb_release -cs) stable"

Next, update the package database with the Docker packages from the newly added repo:

    sudo apt update

Make sure you are about to install from the Docker repo instead of the default Debian repo:

    apt-cache policy docker-ce

You’ll see output like this, although the version number for Docker may be different:
Output of apt-cache policy docker-ce

ocker-ce:
  Installed: (none)
  Candidate: 5:18.09.7~3-0~debian-buster
  Version table:
     5:18.09.7~3-0~debian-buster 500
        500 https://download.docker.com/linux/debian buster/stable amd64 Packages

Notice that docker-ce is not installed, but the candidate for installation is from the Docker repository for Debian 10 (buster).

Finally, install Docker:

    sudo apt install docker-ce

Docker is now installed, the daemon started, and the process enabled to start on boot. Check that it’s running:

    sudo systemctl status docker

The output will be similar to the following, showing that the service is active and running:
